# low-end engine

This is a cross-platform 3D game engine that targets low-end handheld ARM64 linux devices (such as Anbernic RG35XX H, Powkiddy RGB30 and similar) but the engine also supports the usual x86-64 Windows and Linux. 

This engine is most suited for small non open world 3D games with low-poly-ish graphics. This engine is small (fast to learn) and intuitive to use.

Note about drivers
> Running games made with this engine on `libmali` drivers (which your handheld's OS might use) may cause issues and crashes (for example loading a texture may cause black screen and/or out of memory error) instead prefer to use `panfrost` drivers if you OS provides them. Most of the testing is done on Rocknix which provides an option to change used driver in the setting.

# Roadmap

- [X] Node system (Godot-like ECS alternative)
- [X] Handling user input events
- [X] Config management (progress, settings, etc.)
- [X] Type reflection
- [X] Forward renderer using OpenGL ES 3.1
- [X] Dynamic light sources
- [X] Texture import
- [X] GLTF/GLB import
- [X] Profiler
- [X] Post-processing effects
- [ ] GUI
- [ ] Physics engine (using [Jolt](https://github.com/jrouwe/JoltPhysics))
- [ ] Dynamic shadows
- [ ] Instancing
- [ ] Skeletal animations
- [ ] Simple editor
- [ ] Audio engine (using [SoLoud](https://github.com/jarikomppa/soloud))
    - [ ] 2D audio
    - [ ] 3D audio
    - [ ] Audio streaming
    - [ ] Sound effects
- [ ] AI and pathfinding
- [ ] Particle effects

# Documentation

Documentation for this engine consists of 2 parts: API reference (generated from C++ comments) and the manual (at `docs/Manual.md`), generated documentation includes both API reference and the manual (copied from `docs/Manual.md`).

In order to generate the documentation you need to have [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/index.html) installed.

The documentation can be generated by executing the `doxygen` command while being in the `docs` directory. If Doxygen is installed, this will be done automatically on each build.

Generated documentation will be located at `docs/gen/html`, open the `index.html` file from this directory to view the documentation.

# Setup (Build)

Prerequisites:

- [CMake](https://cmake.org/download/)
- [Doxygen](https://doxygen.nl/download.html)
- [LLVM](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/latest)

First, clone this repository:

```
git clone <project URL>
cd <project directory name>
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Then, if you've never used CMake before:

Create a `build` directory next to this file, open created `build` directory and type `cmd` in Explorer's address bar. This will open up a console in which you need to type this:

```
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug .. // for debug mode
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release .. // for release mode
```

This will generate project files that you will use for development.

# Update

To update this repository:

```
git pull
git submodule update --init --recursive
```